URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects








Projects: Human-Computer Interaction, School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne









































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Human-Computer Interaction



Projects







Projects










Adaptive learning technologies
Exploring how AI and machine learning can make inferences about students’ progress and adapt interfaces to tailor the learning experience to each student.






Ageing and avatars
This project aims to identify how NUI technologies can be designed and used to facilitate active social participation for older people constrained by limited mobility.






AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Developing a coherent understanding of the role of Autonomous Analyst instances for human-agent teaming for playing complex games.






Biometric Mirror
This project investigates the public attitudes towards the display of artificial intelligence data in public space.






Centre for Research Excellence in Digital Technology to Transform Chronic Disease Outcomes
We leverage the ubiquitous availability of smart devices and digital technology to improve the health and wellbeing of the population, particularly those with different chronic conditions.






Changing views
Looking at how people experience information and technology when changing their viewpoint on issues of importance to them.






Child of Now
Child of Now combines original storytelling, animation, immersive sound design, built environments, and virtual reality from an extraordinary team of leading Australian artists and IT professionals.






Citizen Heritage
We are investigating how digital technologies enable citizens of local areas to document and share memories and records of their collective past. Our main focus is on the development and study of PastPort, a mobile webapp for residents and visitors of Port Melbourne in inner Melbourne, an area of rich and disparate urban history.






Cognitive interaction
We are developing new technologies for augmenting human cognitive abilities. We employ novel sensing technologies such as eye tracking and thermal imaging to infer users’ intention and cognitive states to design interactions that adapt and respond to these states accordingly.






Communities over the airwaves
This project based in Arts at the University of Melbourne is studying the role of community radio in supporting the culture and wellbeing of emerging migrant communities in Australia. Staff: Greg Wadley. Funding source: Creativity and Wellbeing Hallmark Research Initiative






Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
This project investigates how (and where, when and why) people use digital technologies to shape their emotional states. We plan to develop an evidence-based framework for understanding “digital emotion regulation” in everyday settings.






Covid-19 mobility analysis
Our group has analysed the mobility data released by Facebook during the Covid-19 crisis. The analysis shows global trends, and national trends for multiple countries.






Crowdsourcing
In this project we develop technologies, methods, techniques to improve the quality of generated crowd knowledge. Wisdom of the Crowd refers to a deceptively simple idea: large groups of people are smarter than an elite few, no matter how brilliant – better at solving problems, fostering innovation, coming to wise decisions, even predicting the future.






Death and technology
A long-running program of research exploring how digital technologies are increasingly used to commemorate, memorialise and dispose of the dead. Conducted by human-computer interaction, anthropology and social science researchers from the University of Melbourne and the University of Oxford in collaboration with industry partners.






Deceptive AI
Can computers deceive people? It is clear that computers be used as tools for people to deceive each other (fake news, phishing, etc), but is it possible for a specially designed AI agent to engage in strategic deception?






Digital domesticity
Tracing the origins of domestic digital developments with two decades of empirical fieldwork and ethnographic investigation.












Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
This project will investigate older adults’ experiences with emerging technologies, such as virtual reality, social robots, and online games, which are believed to offer social benefits for those in advanced old age. Through in-depth investigations, the project aims to identify strategies for good practice in the design and deployment of these emerging technologies for enrichment in old age.






Ethics and digital games
Our goal is to better define and understand the overlapping norms and values that develop around digital gameplay.






Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
This project examines multiple design and effectiveness aspects of current and future web search systems, with an emphasis on experiences that support mobility via smartphones, tablets or augmented reality systems.






Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
This project aims to understand how digital technology is being used to enhance, support and extend commercial boardgames through creation of ‘hybrid’ digital-physical boardgames.






Human-Centred Agent Learning
The project explores how technologies can support novice users to train and teach an agent or robot. The team is developing novel interfaces and integrates theories from instructional sciences and gamification to allow humans to be better robot teachers.






Insertable technology for human interactions
This project investigates insertables: devices that go under the skin for non-medical purposes. A small but growing group are choosing to augment their senses by voluntarily inserting devices inside their bodies. This research will help us to understand why people are doing this and the implications for human-technology interactions.






Interactive spaces and media architecture
Exploring opportunities for interactive media to enliven building facades and cultural spaces in the University of Melbourne’s new Innovation Precinct.






Kinecting with orang-utans
In collaboration with Zoos Victoria, this project designed and studied an interactive digital system to enrich and empower the lives of orang-utans at Melbourne Zoo.






Living Archive of Aboriginal Art
This project based in Culture and Communication at the University of Melbourne is designing a technology-based accessible archive of work in conjunction with prominent Aboriginal artist Maree Clarke. Staff: Greg Wadley. Funding source: Melbourne Social Equity Institute






Moderated online social therapy for youth mental health
This long-running project based at Orygen Youth Health is building and testing online mental health interventions. Our flagship platform is currently being rolled out Victoria-wide to help young people during the Covid pandemic. Staff: Simon D’Alfonso, Reeva Lederman, Greg Wadley. Funding source: Victorian Government, NHMRC






MRFF Million Minds
Bringing family, community, culture and country to indigenous youth mental health care. A multi-university project based in Victoria and Western Australia that is addressing the crisis in Aboriginal youth mental health. We aim to improve young people’s engagement with mental health services.






Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Improving human-agent interactions through gaze input and other collaborative modalities.






Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Investigating how music streaming platforms change the way we find, discover and interact with music.






Near-infrared spectroscopy
Our research aims to improve the accessibility of Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) devices for non-expert end-users and to explore novel application domains for the technology.






Orygen Virtual World Project
A virtual world platform bringing to life a new age of digitally enhanced youth mental health care services.






Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
We are researching the use of ubiquitous computing and personal device sensing to monitor mental health and to inform mental health care and digital interventions.












Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
We are researching the use of ubiquitous computing and personal device sensing to monitor mental health and to inform mental health care and digital interventions.






Reading on ubiquitous devices
Reading in a digital world: building new reading experiences and measuring reading behaviour in-the-wild.






Remote but Connected
A co-created digital platform to enable caregivers to support independent living for people with disability in the face of Covid-19.






Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
This project investigates how robots could be designed to assist learners and patients to acquire or reacquire new skills.






Smart Hospital Living Lab
An umbrella program involving multiple technology projects at the University of Melbourne in partnership with hospitals and industry. The main purpose of the lab is to improve how hospitals run.






Smartphones for science
We are developing software to enable scientists to use smartphones as a reliable scientific instrument. Our project has a wide range of activities, including how to make it easier to collect data from smartphones, as well as how to analyse sensor data on smartphones and other mobile or wearable gadgets.






Social and Domestic Drones 
Our team is exploring the potential of small drones in indoor scenarios. We are particularly interested in designing social cues for safe drone navigation in domestic environments.






Social play in immersive gaming environments
This project investigates how voice, gaze and gesture affects a gamer’s experience such as immersion, embodiment, identity and control.






Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
This project investigates how voice, gaze and gesture affects a gamer’s experience such as immersion, embodiment, identity and control.






Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
Exploring the experience not of playing games but of watching them, where gameplay becomes a new form of viewing entertainment.*






 #thismymob
Establishing digital land rights and reconnecting indigenous communities through emerging technologies. This project designed and trialled smartphone apps with urban, regional and remote Australian Indigenous communities, and implemented telehealth in regional communities in response to the Covid pandemic.






Virtual co-presence
‘Teleporting’ collaborators into each other’s spatial environments to enable an immersive sense of being in each other’s physical presence.












Virtual Reality and climate change communication
Using a purpose-built VR app which places the user in a dystopian future where rising sea-levels are impacting familiar urban scenes in Melbourne we investigate how immersive VR experiences can provoke discussion and engagement around climate change in the public domain.






Virtual reality for nature-based mindfulness
This study aimed to explore how VR can support mindfulness practice and to understand user experience issues that may affect the acceptability and efficacy of VR mindfulness for users in the general population.






Western e-HEaLth patient information portal for Pregnancy (WeHELP)
This project, based at the Melbourne Medical School, designed and trialled a smartphone-based pregnancy support intervention for women and families from culturally and linguistically diverse communities in Melbourne’s western suburbs. Staff: Wally Smith, Greg Wadley






XR for Human-Robot Interaction
This project investigates how mixed reality technology could be used to facilitate the human-robot communication looking in particular at data visualisation and robot augmented embodiment.





Completed projects




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

