1. Question: 'What is the purpose of Melbourne Connect?'
Answer: 'Melbourne Connect serves as a purpose-built innovation precinct located at the heart of the Melbourne Biomedical precinct.'

2. Question: 'What type of events can be hosted at Melbourne Connect?'
Answer: 'Events such as meetings, conferences, receptions, workshops, seminars, and exhibitions can be hosted at Melbourne Connect.'

3. Question: 'What is the date and time of the Spotlight 2024 event?'
Answer: 'The Spotlight 2024 event is on 9 May 2024 from 5:30PM to 8:00PM.'

4. Question: 'How many events are there in the Wattle Fellowship Spotlight 2024?'
Answer: 'There are three events in the Wattle Fellowship Spotlight 2024.'

5. Question: 'What kind of products does ATOMOS design?'
Answer: 'ATOMOS designs pioneering products for digital film and video content creation, including hardware devices, software tools, and intelligent cloud services.'

6. Question: 'What are the accomplishments of Atomos World View in the stratospheric ballooning industry?'
Answer: 'Atomos World View has a demonstrated record of accomplishments in the stratospheric ballooning industry with more than 120 completed stratospheric flight operations, including flights with 4,700kg and 10,000kg payloads. World View is a vetted and trusted stratospheric operator.'

7. Question: "What is the purpose of the Wattle Fellowship's Spotlight 2024 event?"
Answer: 'Spotlight 2024 is the last of three events that showcase the learnings, development, and impact of students involved in the Wattle Fellowship program.'

8. Question: 'What is the role of Kath Dolan at ClarkeHopkinsClarke Architects?'
Answer: 'Kath Dolan is the Head of Publicity, Events and Partnerships at ClarkeHopkinsClarke Architects, Melbourne Connect’s anchor tenant.'

9. Question: 'What kind of media does Kath Dolan write for?'
Answer: 'Kath Dolan writes regularly for design media including Green magazine and Houses.'

10. Question: 'What is the focus of Melbourne Climate Futures?'
Answer: 'Melbourne Climate Futures focuses on connecting and amplifying the depth and breadth of The University of Melbourne research, creating a portal to share ideas and collaborate on real action, and empowering the next generation of climate activists.'

