URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/colloquium/cisdc-2022#faq








CIS Doctoral Colloquium: Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne









































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Colloquium



CISDC 2022







2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium






About
Program
Submission
Registration
FAQ
Our team
Contact

 

The CIS Doctoral Colloquium is an annual one-day research conference for graduate researchers in the School of Computing and Information Systems.



This event is an opportunity for CIS graduate researchers to present their research in a supportive environment and receive feedback from a wide audience of peers and industry representatives.We are asking our presenters to focus on the real-world impacts and applications of their work. We want you to be able to reach a wider audience that is beyond your peers in your field of research.


















































More Photos


Previous colloquiums2022 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013




Sponsors - 2022 Colloquium
 


 


 


 


 







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 


ProgramDownload:  CIS Doctoral Colloquium 2022 Program [PDF]Keynote Speakers






Prof. Eduard Hovy

Professor Eduard HovyProfessor Eduard Hovy is a Research Professor in the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University. He is a highly respected researcher in the field of Natural Language Processing having contributed to the area over multiple decades. He received M.S. (December 1982) and Ph.D. (May 1987) degrees in Computer Science from Yale University and has been awarded honorary doctorates from the National University of Distance Education (UNED) in Madrid in 2013 and the University of Antwerp in 2015. He is a fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, as well as one of the original 17 fellows of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Prof. Hovy joins us here in Melbourne as the Executive Director of Melbourne Connect.His research focuses on various topics, including aspects of the computational semantics of human language (such as text analysis, event detection and coreference, text summarization and generation, question answering, discourse processing, ontologies, text mining, text annotation, and machine translation evaluation), aspects of social media (such as event detection and tracking, sentiment and opinion analysis, and author profile creation), analysis of the semantics of non-textual information such as tables, and aspects of digital government.









Timothy Kariotis

Timothy KariotisTimothy Kariotis is Assistant Director for Usability in the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations, PhD Candidate in Digital Health at the School of Computing and Information System, and Lecturer in Digital Government at Melbourne School of Government.Tim's research spans the design of digital mental health technologies, information experience design, A.I. ethics, regulatory design, data science applied to industrial relations, sustainable healthcare and disability informatics. With a background in community development and public health, Tim brings a systems perspective to all this research and work. He leads high-performing teams across various projects in government and academia.Tim co-leads the Fair Day's Work Project at Melbourne School of Government. He leads a team of academics from law, economics, design data science, and social science, exploring the use of data science methods to prevent wage theft. Tim is also a part of a small group of academics across law, medicine, public health and engineering exploring the use of digital technologies and data to decarbonise the Australian healthcare system.Tim's PhD explores the information experiences of people with complex mental health issues in their journeys through the mental health system. Tim is working with these experiences to develop a framework to inform the design of electronic health records that enhance service users' experiences in the mental health system.








Award WinnersHere is a list of all award winners, who each took home $500 in prizes! Jury's Choice
         Best Paper Award 
      
         Ashley Anderson 
      
         Best Paper Presentation 
      
         Archana Vadakattu 
      
         Best Poster 
      
         Samangi Wadinambi Arachichi 
      
         Best 3MR 
      
         Robert Langtry 
       People's Choice
         Best Poster 
      
         Ming Chen 
      
         Best 3MR 
      
         Yunning Zhou 
      Accepted SubmissionsHere is a list of all accepted submissions for each track:Paper TrackArtificial IntelligencePresenterTitle
         Hanan Alsouly 
      
         What Makes A Constrained Multi-Objective Optimization Problem Hard? 
      
         Archana Vadakattu 
      
         Extracting Strategies from Single-agent Game Trajectories 
      
         Chen Wang 
      
         Online Trajectory Anomaly Detection Based on Intention Orientation 
      
         Philip Cervenjak 
      
         Parallel algorithms for optimising p-separable submodular functions 
      Human-Computer Interaction & Information SystemsPresenterTitle
         Yushan Xing 
      
         Technology Use by Community Organizations to Support the Social Connectedness of Older Adults During the COVID-19 Pandemic 
      
         Nattapat Boonprakong 
      
         How our bodies experience different opinions?: Sensing confirmation bias through physiological signals 
      
         Eleanor Seale 
      
         Gods & Greeks: a Study of an Immersive RPG in a Museum Setting 
      
         Ashley Anderson 
      
         Re-imagining the cybersecurity leader: a novel conceptualisation of the objectives of professional education 
      Computer SciencePresenterTitle
         Zhuo Zhang 
      
         Approximate Range Thresholding 
      
         Stewart Webb 
      
         Mapping an Object Capability language onto the seL4 microkernel and its capability system 
      
         Peaker Guo 
      
         Efficient Computation of String Net Frequency with Augmented Suffix Arrays   
      GeneralPresenterTitle
         Nefel Tellioglu 
      
         Modelling the effectiveness of mass drug administration strategies for reducing scabies burden in Monrovia, Liberia 
      
         Pengbo Yan 
      
         Proving Probabilistic Security Features with Formal Verification 
      
         Lianglu Pan 
      
         Detecting Excessive Data Exposure Vulnerabilities in Web Server Responses 
      Poster TrackPresenterTitle
         Ali Ugur Guler 
      
         Relu-DNL: A Non Linear Exact Model for Predict+Optimize 
      
         Catherine Thompson 
      
         Trustworthiness in the Digital World 
      
         Duneesha Fernando 
      
         Anomaly-aware Management of Microservices-based Edge Computing Resources 
      
         Hajar Alamri 
      
         Motivations for Discussing Chronic Disease on Online Photo Sharing Platforms 
      
         Hanxun Huang 
      
         Unlearnable Examples: Making Personal Data Unexploitable 
      
         Hoa Nguyen 
      
         A Serverless Platform for developing Microservice Quantum-Classical Applications 
      
         Matthew Sidji 
      
         The Hidden Rules of Hanabi: How Humans Outperform AI Agents 
      
         Ming Chen 
      
         Efficient Resource Management via Co-locating Jobs in Clouds 
      
         Samangi Wadinambi Arachchi 
      
         Exploring the Potential of AI-generated Images as a Remedy for Design Fixation 
      
         Tharindu Bandara Saryakara Hewage 
      
         Decentralized Re-Scheduling of Latency Critical Tasks in GeoDistributed Micro-Clouds With Dynamic Power-Budgets 
      Three Minute Research TrackPresenterTitle
         Stephanie Park 
      
         Improving Information Security Governance in Organisations 
      
         Yuning Zhou 
      
         Active Learning-based Deep Learning Dataset Construction for Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy Structure Segmentation 
      
         Kemal Kurniawan 
      
         Easier Transfer Learning for Predicting Sentence Structures 
      
         Prabodi Senevirathna 
      
         Quantifying and Mitigating Digital Overdiagnosis 
      
         Craig Lewis 
      
         Influence in organisations 
      
         Hao Wu 
      
         Frequency Estimation Under Local Differential Privacy 
      
         Zhuoqun Huang 
      
         Defending adversarial malware disguises 
      
         Robert Langtry 
      
         Machine learning for automated generation of validated infra-red signature models 
      
         Shuai Yuan 
      
         Social Robots in Aged Care: Care Staff Experiences and Perspectives on Robot Benefits and Challenges 
      
         Jiankai Jin 
      
         Identifying and Preventing Implementation Flaws in Secure Machine Learning Systems 
      
         Wei Zhao 
      
         Designing Digital Technologies to Support Older Adults’ Engagement in Meaningful Activities







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Want to share your research to the community?The CIS Doctoral Colloquium the perfect place for you!


  The CIS Doctoral Colloquium is an exciting opportunity for PhD students to share their research with the University community and the general public. It's also an opportunity to meet with industry representatives and network with your peers.





  Submissions are now open for the 2022 Doctoral Colloquium


  See the list of important dates for the 2022 Doctoral Colloquium at the bottom of this page.

Submissions for abstracts will close at midnight on Thursday September 1st. Note that at this stage we only require you to submit an abstract, you can add the remaining documents by the 26th of September.

Submit Here

  If you have any questions about the colloquium or the submission process please email:CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au




How to participate, step by stepSubmission GuidelinesEligibilityPrizesImportant datesHow to participateOnce the applications are opened, you will be asked to submit all the required information on EasyChair. As you move on with your application, you will receive further information.





Choose your preferred submission track
Choose between the three available tracks:Research paper: You will submit a short paper (1-2 pages) in the lead-up to the event and present your research on stage (7-10min) followed up by a Q&A on the day. More information about this track.Three Minute Research presentation: You will have to present your research in three (3) minutes to a non-specialist audience, followed up by a Q&A on the day. More information about this track.Research poster (& Demo):  You will present and discuss your academic work during a poster session on the day. Demonstrations are also encouraged when possible, please contact us for any material enquiries. More information about this track.


Submit your abstract
If you chose the Research paper track or the Poster (& Demo) track; submit a 400 words (or less) abstract.For all other tracks; submit a 200 words (or less) abstract.All abstract submissions should contain a title, keywords and the list of your supervisors. Check the deadlines below on this page or from our communication emails.


Submit your documents
Once we receive your abstract, submit the additional information (depending on your track):Research paper: submit a 1-2 page long paper summary and your slides. You can find templates on this page or on our EasyChair conference page.Three Minute Research presentation: submit your slides. If you'd like some feedback and rehearse, you can present to us before the event!Research poster (& Demo): submit an A1 poster. Email us with additional requests if you plan to showcase a demo on the day.




Submission guidelinesFind resources such as templates for the different tracks and examples from previous colloquiums on our dedicated resource page.


EligibilityApplicants must:Be a current graduate researcher at the University of Melbourne.Belong to the School of Computing and Information Systems.Provide required documents on time.Domestic and international; part-time and full-time students are eligible. There is no capacity limits and no selection criteria. We welcome research at all levels of progress and completion.PrizesThere will be both top and honorary prizes awarded to selected presentations, posters and papers.Note: If you won a prize in a previous colloquium, you will only be eligible to win again this year if you present a new piece of research.



Important dates*Please note these are the revised proposed dates for the 2022 colloquium, they may be subject to change if necessary.





				Monday 11 July 2022


First call for papers


				Monday 1 August 2022


Second call for papers


				Thursday 1 September 2022


23.59pm
Abstract deadline


				Monday 5 September 2022


Notification of  Acceptance


				Monday 26 September 2022


5.00pm
Paper, Poster and slides submission deadline


				Saturday 1 October 2022


5.00pm
Registration deadline


				Thursday 13 October 2022


Doctoral Colloquium









@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Want to attend the CIS Doctoral Colloquium?Register for the event and find information about the venue here.


  Get to know our graduate researchers from the school of Computing and Information Systems. The Colloquium is free to attend and will showcase a range of presentations and times for interaction.






  Registrations are now open for the 2022 Doctoral Colloquium



Date & Time
Thursday, 13 October, 20228:30am - 6pm


Venue Information
Melbourne ConnectThe Superfloor, Melbourne Connect700 Swanston Street, Carlton



Book now




Conference VenueThe 8th CIS Doctoral Colloquium (CIS-DC 2022) will be held at Melbourne's newest innovation precinct: Melbourne Connect, on Thursday 13th of October 2022. The buildings accommodate more than 500 academic staff and post graduate students, researchers, businesses, and start-ups collaborating all together.Melbourne Connect700 Swanston StThe University of MelbourneParkville, VIC 3010(03) 9035 5553






@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Frequently Asked Questions


Submission





I’m not sure where to submit my work?

Create an account on EasyChair with your student UniMelb email. Go to the conference EasyChair web page and submit all the required documents.



I’m a UniMelb undergrad or master's student, can I submit?

Sorry, only Graduate Researchers (PhD and Masters by research) are eligible to submit to the CIS-DC. Not a GR? You are most welcome to attend the conference on the day.



Where can I find resources to help me prepare for my submission?

You can find additional resources (including previous posters and proceedings) on the submission guidelines page.



Does it matter what point I am at in my PhD candidature?

No, all graduate researchers (PhD’s and Masters by research students) are welcome to participate. Even if you have just started, we want to hear what you are excited about at the start of your research journey!





Other





I’m currently based offshore or interstate, am I able to participate?

We would love for you to participate. If you can't attend the conference in person, the best option would be to submit a pre-recorded presentation for the 3 minute research track.



Will the conference be streamed?

We are unable to offer a sufficient online or hybrid version of the event. We will be sharing as much content as we can on the day through the social media channels.



I worry about participating to large conferences (COVID). What measures are in place?

We are following the Universities Covid Safe protocol. Covid contingencies are in place and we will communicate any changes as soon as we can.









@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 


Thomas (Tom) HarrisCo-Conference Chair





Thomas (Tom) Harris

Tom has been at the University of Melbourne since 2015, completing his Bachelor of Science in 2017 and Master of Computer Science in 2021. His research focuses on the factors affecting infectious disease spread in human populations and how we can use agent-based modelling to understand processes related to disease transmission.Outside of study, he loves hiking and cycling.Emailthomash1@student.unimelb.edu.au


Rashika BahlCo-Conference Chair





Rashika Bahl

Responsible for overall management of the conference and Committee. Responsible for co-ordination of applications for funding and sponsorship. Responsibility for hosting industry guests at the DC.Emailrashikab@student.unimelb.edu.au


Susan (Susie) SheldrickMarketing and Public Relations Coordinator





Susan (Susie) Sheldrick

Susan is a Graduate Researcher at the University of Melbourne’s School of Computing and Information Systems. Her research centres on the impact of AI in information systems in regional and remote communities. As a part of the Center for AI and Digital Ethics she also teaches AI, Ethics and Law, and the Ethics of AI. Prior to academia, Susan worked in the local AI industry promoting the local ecosystem and responsible usage of technology.Emailssheldrick@student.unimelb.edu.au


Vincent Barbosa VazWebsite & Registration Coordinator





Vincent Barbosa Vaz

Vincent is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. His main research interests lie in machine learning and optimisation. His project area explores the interplay between these two fields and how they can be more tightly integrated. Vincent is affiliated to the new ARC Training Centre OPTIMA with the industry partner South East Water. The focus of his applied work is on adapting such a framework to the water sector to make more informed decisions.Outside of study, he can be found at art venues or consuming ice cream (on cold days too).Profile, Emailvbarbosavaz@student.unimelb.edu.au


Xiang (Stella) PengLogistics Chair





Xiang (Stella) Peng

Stella Peng is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne, where she also received her master’s degree in 2020. Her research interests include IT/IS, sustainability, innovation and supply chain management. Now, Stella is exploring IT-enabled sustainability-oriented innovations in her PhD.Stella loves to spend her spare time with her cat Nikko and always has tons of cat hairs on her clothes. So please take care if you are allergic to cat hair when physically approaching Stella  :-)Emailxiang.peng@student.unimelb.edu.au


Chenyang (Peter) WangProgram & Publications Chair





Chenyang (Peter) Wang

Handles the Call for Papers. Review of all papers to be shared by all Committee members. Assists in the scheduling of sessions and rooms. Prepares posters and slides for the sessions.Emailchenyangw3@student.unimelb.edu.au


AdminLaura JuliffResearch Project Officer





Laura Juliff

Laura is a research project officer in the School of Computing and Information Systems (CIS) at the University of Melbourne.Emaillaura.juliff@unimelb.edu.au





Volunteers
         Heidi Peart
      
        Yiyuan Pu 
      
        Rinu Ann Sebastian 
      
        Viktoria Schram 
      
        Roben Delos Reyes 
      
        Markus Hiller 
      
        Meng Yuan 
      
        Ping 
      
        Pilar Selene Linares Arévalo 
      JudgesMario Andres Munoz AcostaMarc Cheong 
      Tim Miller 
      Tony Wirth 
      Patrick Eades 
      Nicole Barbee 
      Johnny Smoes 
      Craig Lewis 
      Ofir TurelAmina Wagner 
      Jenny Waycott 
      James Bailey 
      Kris Ehinger 
      Biaoyan (Byron) Fang 
      Neil Marchant 
      Junhao Gan 
      Maria Read







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Sponsoring
Interested in sponsoring our next Colloquium? If you are interested in hearing more about how your organisation can be a part of our event, contact us by email at: CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au

Enquiries
Any further enquiries, contact the CIS DC team:

EmailEmail: CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au

Social media
We are on social media:

TwitterTwitter: @cis_dc


InstagramInstagram: @unimelb_cis_dc


FacebookFacebook: fb.me/melbcisdc







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc









Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

