URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/encounters#main-content








Encounters: Collective Bodies, Creative Spaces: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne













































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Human-Computer Interaction



Projects



Encounters




School of Computing and Information Systems




Encounters: Collective Bodies, Creative Spaces





Project overviewIn collaboration with the Victorian College of the Arts (VCA) the Microsoft Research Centre for Social Natural User Interfaces (SocialNUI) participated in the SummerSalt Festival, an outdoor festival led by the Melbourne Recital Centre supported by Creative Victoria and the Victorian State Government. Running from 23 January 2015 to 21 February 2015, SummerSalt offered a program of music, dance, circus and theatre to celebrate all the Melbourne Arts Precinct, which is home to such institutions as the VCA, Melbourne Theatre Company, Melbourne Recital Centre and the National Gallery of Victoria, has to offer.SocialNUI and the VCA created a large installation called Encounters that explored the world of human-computer interaction, or HCI for SummerSalt. The ambitious project united artists with computing experts to produce an engaging new audience experience that was open free to the public. Encounters was set across three platforms presided over by a large screen. The space was filled with light and sound that responded to audience movement, creating a dialogue between the human and the machine. As the audience entered the space Microsoft Kinect sensors detected their presence, triggering sounds and lighting effects based on not only what participants were doing but what they’re doing relative to everybody else. Every audience member was represented on the screen. Particular actions will change that representation. So if audience members jumped or came together with other people the way they were represented changed. Three VCA dance students and graduates added to the experience by joining with audience members while sporting wearable technology, which projected their movements in detail on the screen. Approximately 1200 people went through the installation over four Saturday nights.While Encounters offered a unique audience experience, it also provided a unique research opportunity. The researchers from SocialNUI had the opportunity to make their technologies available for public enjoyment, while learning more about how people interact with them. The project took computational innovation from the lab to the streets and allowed SocialNUI and the VCA, two very different disciplines, to come together for this unique collaboration—the first of its kind at the University of Melbourne.PublicationsWouters, N., Downs, J., Harrop, M., Cox, T., Oliveira, E., Webber, S., Vetere, F., & Andrew Vande Moere, A. V. (2016) Uncovering the Honeypot Effect: How Audiences Engage with Public Interactive Systems. In Proceedings of the Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS 2016). New York: ACM Press [PDF]Webber, S., Harrop, M., Downs, J., Cox, T., Wouters, N., & Moere, A. V. (2015). Everybody Dance Now: Tensions Between Participation and Performance in Interactive Public Installations. InProceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Australian Special Interest Group for Computer Human Interaction (OzCHI 2015) New York: ACM Press, pp. 284–288 [DOI]MediaMicrosoft Developer, 24 April 2015Encounters with KinectMicrosoft Research Blog, 9 April 2015Research moves from the lab to the street3RRR Byte Into It, 25 February 2015Radio Interview: Encounters ProjectThe Voice, 8 March 2015Southbank springs to life for SummerSalt arts festivalThe Age, 5 February 2015Southbank springs to life for SummerSalt arts festivalProject teamAlex Beckwww.alexandermbeck.comAlex is a lecturer in Music Production and Audio Engineering at the Victorian College of the Arts, School of Contemporary Music. Alex has worked in recording studios throughout Melbourne and enjoys long walks on the beach, hot sunny days and cars without air conditioning.Cathyann Coadycathyanncoady.comCurrently undertaking a Masters in Contemporary Art at VCA, Cathyann’s art practice includes performance, video and instillations that investigate the nature of mood and its associated psychological human conditions.Travis Coxdenouncetheclock.comCox’s practice-led research explores the role programming languages play within computer art. His artworks reflect the underlying systems that define them — seeking to highlight the role of code plays in understanding and interacting with both artistic and everyday interfaces. Most recently Cox’s sound and movement responsive artworks have been shown at The Windsor Hotel’s Marvel, and as part of Infundibular at the Melbourne Fringe Festival.John Downsjohndowns.co.nzJohn is a researcher in the SocialNUI centre, focused on the role of NUI technologies in public spaces. John recently submitted a PhD thesis in the area of human-computer interaction, and holds degrees in computer science and psychology.Paul DoyleLinkedInPaul is a Melbourne-based production and event manager. He is a Production Coordinator at the Victorian College of the Arts and has previously worked as a Technical Coordinator for the Melbourne White Night Festival and a Production Manager at the Melbourne Theatre Company and Orchestra Victoria.Asher R H Elazarysoundcloud.com/asatrueAsher is a musician studying at The University of Melbourne, and has pursued many areas in the audio world including mixing mastering and audio programming. He has created a variety of interactive applications and audio applications and specializes in synthesis and MAX/MSP.Paul FletcherPaul is a Lecturer in Animation at the VCA School of Film & Television. He is an animation, digital video and sound artist. He has facilitated short courses and group production projects integrating environment, science and art themes and has an interest in the relationship between sound and animated motion.Kat FranksKat is the Centre Manager at the Microsoft SocialNUI centre in the Department of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. Before joining Melbourne she worked in the Graphic Design industry for over 10 years in various studio management and client service roles.Joe Gentrywarmslime.tumblr.comCurrently studying a bachelor of visual arts at the Victorian College of the Arts, Joe’s practice is concerned with new media, including 3D graphic images, animation and printing.Diego Iida GiraldesLinkedInDiego is a exchange student in University of Melbourne who studies Electric Engineering, option Computation at the Polytechnic School of the University of São Paulo(Brazil). He worked in Interlab: Laboratory of Interactive Technologies of the University of São Paulo where he developed a software to detection of postures hands for direct manipulation of a 3D virtual book using Processing and Kinect.Steven Hadleysteven-hadley.comCurrently studying his Bachelor of fine arts at the Victorian College of the Arts Steven Hadley’s practice involves the exploration of new media and collective thought as a means of creating artwork.Mitchell HarropMitchell Harrop WebMitchell is a lecturer and PhD candidate in the Department of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. His thesis concerns the negotiation of rules and experiences by players in digital multiplayer games. He has has dabbled as a software engineer and has worked at the CSIRO.Leanne HermosillaLeanne is a PhD candidate in the School of Art at the VCA. Her research engages in a practice-led study of marginalised and alternative knowledge as a methodology for art making. Recent works merge ideas and information from the doctrines of both science and pseudo-science in order to consider how and why various kinds of understanding and experience are more or less valued in the hierarchies of human epistemologies.Thuong HoangThuong Hoang is currently a Research Fellow at the Microsoft Research Centre for Social Natural User Interfaces. He completed his PhD in computer science at the University of South Australia in 2014. His research interests are in augmented reality, wearable computer, and natural user interfaces. He has experience with top-mounted Kinect in previous research projects.Zaher Joukhadarjoukhadar.meZaher is research fellow (software engineer) at SocialNUI center. He is currently responsible for designing, implementing, and delivering software projects to support SocialNUI research. He received his master degree in Information Technology from The University of Melbourne. He has bachelor degree with honors in Computer Science specialized in Machine Learning and Natural Languages Processing from the University of Aleppo. Zaher has been working on projects involving machine learning and image processing since 2010.Rosie LevertonRosie is currently undertaking a Bachelor of Fine Arts (Dance) at the Victorian College of the Arts (VCA). She completed her Royal Academy of Dance Advanced examination in 2013, training at Steps Performing Arts School with Rachelle Kellett and Angela Hill. Rosie is interested in the creation of performance art involving integration of dance and other art forms such as film, visual projection and sound.Joanne Lichtivimeo.com/joannelichtiJoanne Lichti is undertaking a Master of Dance at the Victorian College of the Arts in 2015. She has a BFA in Photography from RMIT University and a Post Graduate Diploma in Performance Creation in Choreography from the VCA. Her solo visual performance work uses choreographic improvisation and video to represent the lived body.Kaitlyn McConnellvimeo.com/user25986242Kaitlyn graduated from the Victorian College of the Arts in 2014. In June 2012 she was hired to choreograph and perform as a part of a Music Video for Dark Matter of Story Telling. In 2013 she choreographed and danced in a fashion film for an RMIT student, which was entered into a Fashion Film competition. She also had the privilege of representing the VCA at the Margret Lawrence Festival earlier in her third year of VCA. In her final semester at VCA, she presented her first dance film installation work called Mere.Andrew McLaughlinwww.andrewxmclaughlin.comAndrew McLaughlin is a photographer, musician and educator from Melbourne. Since completing his BFA and MA in Media Arts at RMIT Andrew has exhibited, released and performed his works both locally and internationally. Andrew is also the Digital Programs Coordinator at The Victorian College of the Arts (University of Melbourne).Amy McNicklewww.amymcnickle.comAmy is a Melbourne based multi-media composer, with interests particularly in sound for film and interactive installations.Eduardo A. Oliveiraeduoliveira.com/englishversionDuring his Masters and later on his PhD, Eduardo researched about complex adaptive systems, intelligent agents, context awareness, social networks and middleware. He is now a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at Department of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne. Parallel to his research, Eduardo worked since 2004 as a Senior System Engineer and Technical Consultant at CESAR (Recife-Pernambuco/Brazil) researching/developing/leading Motorola, Samsung, Compal Electronics and Gemalto international projects.Max Piantoniwww.maxpiantoni.comMax is a device for turning amusing ideas into finished objects. His films have screened at festivals around the country and his 'Art' is regularly exhibited in galleries around town. Enjoy it all online at www.maxpiantoni.comManoel Horta Ribeirolattes.cnpq.br/1069141361567921Manoel Ribeiro is a Computer Science student at UFMG (Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brasil), currently undertaking an exchange program at the University of Melbourne. His areas of interest are Machine Learning, Data Mining and Graphic Computing.Juliano Coletto RottaJuliano is a third year computer science undergraduate student at the University of Melbourne. He’s Brazilian, living in Melbourne with studies sponsored by the Brazilian Council for Scientific and Technological Development. Juliano has academic background on OpenCV and OpenGL with work on projects including computer vision.Tillman Schäubletillmanschauble.comTillman Schäuble is a composer who predominantly approaches music from a psychological view point. The interest he has in the human mind, and the ability music has in guiding thought and emotion, allows him to enjoy creating many different types of music. His favourite type of composition though, is that which compliments another art form. Be it film, dance or installation work, he finds the addition of music a fascinatingly powerful tool.Thomas SchmockerThomas Schmocker is a young composer studying at the VCA. His practice encompasses music for theatre, dance and installation pieces, most of which feature a breakdown in the traditional audience-performer relationship and a meeting of the electronic with the acoustic.Maize Wallinmaizewallin.comMaize Wallin is a Melbourne based composer (technically educated at VCA), a curator and creator of live art shows. While working predominantly with dancers and visual artists (highlights being CONJUNCT) Most recently she has run the Game Art Melbourne Exhibition and co-directed Glitchmark’s Holograph conference, as well as speaking at various game development and digital arts events. She is currently co-directing CTRL_Coda, a musical instrument videogame controller exhibition and performance.Emilie WalshEmilie Walsh was born in France, and has a Master in Fine Art from Marseille University. She recently moved to Melbourne to start a PhD in Fine Art at the VCA. Her artistic research focus is on adventure: what is it today and where can it be found? She aims to provide possible answers to these questions through different art project in video, photo, drawing and printmaking.Sarah Webberwww.sarahwebber.meSarah is an interaction design researcher and PhD candidate at the University of Melbourne focusing on mobile and pervasive technologies for wellbeing and engagement with culture. With a background in IT for education and for non-profit organisations, she has a keen interest in how future technologies might play a role in creating strong, healthy communities.Niels Woutersnwt.rsNiels is a PhD candidate at the University of Leuven (Belgium). He has a background in computer science and architecture. In his research, Niels investigates the social and architectural qualities of media architecture (i.e. the integration of display media in urban space). His research is characterised by a critical, inclusive and explorative approach to the various aspects that are involved in the design, integration, and continuity of media architecture.Matt Zambonfacebook.com/mattzambonmusicMatt is an international student of South African origin and has recently completed his second year of Interactive Composition at the VCA. He mostly identifies himself as a pop/rock musician however, drawing inspiration from a multitude of different people, places and things, he constantly writes music of varied genres and styles.




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

