URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/agentlab/projects/mining








Mining and optimisation: agile mine scheduling through contingent planning, A.I. and Autonomy Lab, The University of Melbourne













































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



AI and Autonomy Lab



Research



Mining and optimisation







Mining and optimisation
AI and Autonomy Lab project






Project descriptionMine planning is complex with short, medium and long-term objectives that are often competing rather than complementary. Increasing capability in data collection and management, moreover, is enabling faster and more frequent updating of orebody models. Fast, and predominantly automated, scheduling tools can take advantage of these frequent model updates by developing new, or adjusting existing plans, as required. This contrasts with current practice in which the time consuming nature of planning prevents this kind of agility.The Mining & Optimisation team within the AI & Autonomy Group has the capabilities to tackle these complex optimisation problems, with expertise in mathematical programming, discrete optimisation, classical planning, and stochastic optimisation. We have a track record of developing novel algorithms, and applying decomposition, aggregation and disaggregation, to complex scheduling problems.In a prior collaboration with Rio Tinto Iron Ore (RTIO), we have developed efficient algorithms for generating multiple realistic short-term production plans for open-pit iron ore mines, optimised with respect to a series of prioritisable objectives. A large number of distinct plans can be generated in minutes, each satisfying all relevant constraints on equipment and plant utilisation, and KPIs on production. Our collaboration with RTIO has additionally resulted in algorithms for short-term scheduling across a network of mines, each contributing to a set of blended products, and hybrid optimisation methods for planning at daily and weekly timescales. We have experience in the mathematical modelling of key planning problems across all horizons, from short- to long-term.Our researchers have collaborated with the Hunter Valley Coal Chain to develop an optimization-based logistics planning system integrating train scheduling, stockpile management, and vessel scheduling. This system-wide, coordinated approach deviates from earlier efforts that have focused on individual components of such supply chains, and integrates constraint programming, mixed integer programming, and local search methods.Our research agenda and interests include:Multi-horizon planningLinking real-time control and data collection with planning toolsModelling and reasoning with uncertainty.Multi-horizon planningCurrent practice, and software tools, do not provide adequate support to mine planners for analysing the impact of decisions at one planning horizon on others. A new generation of planning technology is required to realise effective multi-horizon planning.Real-time control, data collection, and planningFast and automated scheduling tools provide a means of adapting plans in response to new data as it arrives. This leads to interesting research questions, however, such as when and how to adapt plans in response to variation in predictions and their uncertainty.Modelling and reasoning with uncertaintyWe are interested in developing algorithms that are able to find a series of robust plans within reasonable time frames – drawing upon the fields of robust optimisation, simulation optimisation, and contingency analysis.Researchers in the Mining & Optimisation team within the AI & Autonomy Group form part of a larger group of academics across the Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology working on mining-related problems. The Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology’s Sustainable Resources platform works with explorers, miners, and mining equipment, technology and service providers to tackle the sectors most challenging problems.ResearchersProf Adrian PearceProf Peter StuckeyDr Michelle BlomDr Nir LipovetzkyDr Miguel RamirezPublicationsBlom, M.; Pearce, AR.; Stuckey, PJ. (2018) “Multi-objective short-term production scheduling for open-pit mines: a hierarchical decomposition-based algorithm” Engineering Optimization pp: 1-18. DOI:10.1080/0305215X.2018.1429601Blom, M.; Pearce, AR.; Stuckey, PJ. (2018) “Short-term planning for open pit mines: a review”International Journal of Mining, Reclamation and Environment pp: 1-22. DOI:10.1080/17480930.2018.1448248Blom, M.; Pearce, AR.; Stuckey, PJ. (2017) “Short-term scheduling of an open-pit mine with multiple objectives” Engineering Optimization TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD. pp: 777-795. DOI:10.1080/0305215X.2016.1218002Blom, ML.; Pearce, AR.; Stuckey, PJ. (2016) “A Decomposition-Based Algorithm for the Scheduling of Open-Pit Networks Over Multiple Time Periods” Management Science INFORMS. pp: 3059-3084. DOI:10.1287/mnsc.2015.2284Harabor, D.; Stuckey, PJ. (2016) “Rail Capacity Modelling with Constraint Programming” Quimper, CG. (Ed.) 13th International Conference on Integration of Artificial Intelligence and Operations Research Techniques in Constraint Programming (CPAIOR) Switzerland. SPRINGER INT PUBLISHING AG. pp: 170-186. DOI:10.1007/978-3-319-33954-2_13Burt, CN.; Lipovetzky, N.; Pearce, AR.; Stuckey, PJ. (2015) “Scheduling with Fixed Maintenance, Shared Resources and Nonlinear Feedrate Constraints: A Mine Planning Case Study” Michel, L. (Ed.) 12th International Conference on Integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Operations Research (OR) Techniques in Constraint Programming (CPAIOR) SPRINGER-VERLAG BERLIN. pp: 91-107. DOI:10.1007/978-3-319-18008-3_7Blom, ML.; Burt, CN.; Pearce, A.; Stuckey, PJ. (2014) “A Decomposition-Based Heuristic for Collaborative Scheduling in a Network of Open-Pit Mines” INFORMS Journal on ComputingINFORMS. pp: 658-689. DOI:10.1287/ijoc.2013.0590Belov, G.; Boland, N.; Savelsbergh, MWP.; Stuckey, PJ. (2014) “Local search for a cargo assembly planning problem” 11th International Conference on the Integration of Artificial Intelligence and Operations Research Techniques in Constraint Programming (CPAIOR) CH. Springer International Publishing. pp: 159-175. DOI:10.1007/978-3-319-07046-9_12Lipovetzky, N.; Burt, CN.; Pearce, A.; Stuckey, PJ. (2014) “Planning for Mining Operations with Time and Resource Constraints” Steve Chien, Minh Do, Alan Fern, And Wheeler Ruml, . (Ed.) International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS) US. AAAI Press. pp: 404-412.ContactAdrian PearceEmail: adrianrp@unimelb.edu.au




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

