URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/digital-commemoration#main-content








Digital commemoration: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne













































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Human-Computer Interaction



Projects



Digital commemoration







Digital commemoration






Project overview Photo: Sean MacEntee, CC BY 2.0The Internet is not just changing our social lives, it is also changing how we approach death and commemoration. Over the next three years, the Digital Commemoration project will explore these changes.The ‘Digital Commemoration’ project brings together researchers from Anthropology, Human and Computer Interaction (HCI), Social Studies of Technology, and Media and Communications. The project will provide an extensive analysis of contemporary digital commemoration and a detailed account of the wider social and cultural implications of these practices. This research continues our previous work on digital memorialisation and the mediation of death online, which has been supported by research grants from the Institute for a Broadband Enabled Society (IBES) and the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network (ACCAN).‘Digital Commemoration’ is a three-year interdisciplinary project funded by the Australian Research Council.What is Digital Commemoration?Digital commemorations first took the form of online memorials that appeared in the late 1990s when memorial websites were created and hosted by families and friends. Digital commemorations have since grown in popularity and diversified significantly.They now include:Tribute pages and memorials hosted on specialist memorial websites.Blogs created to commemorate loved ones.Repurposed and special purpose pages on social networking sitesDigitally mediated funerary practices.Virtual world commemorations and ceremonies like funeral ceremonies in Second Life or memorials in World of Warcraft.Solar-powered headstones containing recording devices, video display screens or QR barcodes to access further information about the deceased.Groups organised through social media to commemorate the dead.RIP-Troll flash-mobs who deliberately deface memorial sites, abuse the deceased, and insult mourners.Project teamBjorn NansenTamara KohnMartin GibbsMichael ArnoldElizabeth HallamJames MeeseProject historyThe chief investigators of this project have previously conducted collaborative research on issues surrounding death online.The Institute for a Broadband Enabled Society (IBES) funded the ‘Death, Grieving and Memorialization in a Broadband‐Enabled Society’ research project in 2010–2011.A subsequent grant from the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network (ACCAN) in 2012 supported our research into consumer issues around planning and managing digital legacies. This research led to the publication of a final report and a website, which can assist consumers in planning their digital heritage.Death and the Internet: Consumer issues for planning and managing digital legacies (4mb) Online resourcesDigital Heritage: What happens to your digital assets after you die?The Digital Beyond: Insight about your digital death and afterlifeDigital Dust: Death in the Digital Era & Life After Death on the Net: Digital, Virtual and Online Aspects of Current DeathDigital DeathDesign for DeathPublicationsPeer-reviewed publicationsMeese, J., Nansen, B., Kohn, T., Arnold, M. & Gibbs, M. (2015) Posthumous personhood and the affordances of digital media, Mortality, 20 (4), 408-420, DOI: 10.1080/13576275.2015.1083724Nansen, B., Arnold, M., Gibbs, M., and Kohn, T. (2015) The Stories of Zyzz - Distributed Memories on Distributed Networks, In Social Media and Social Memories: Remembering in Digitally Networked Times. Eds. Christine Lohmeier, Andrea Hajek and Christian Pentzold. Palgrave Macmillan.Gibbs, M., Meese, J., Arnold, M., Nansen, B., & Carter, M. (2015). #Funeral and Instagram: death, social media, and platform vernacular. Information, Communication & Society, 18(3), 255-268.Graham, C., Arnold, M., Kohn, T., & Gibbs, M. R. (2015). Gravesites and websites: a comparison of memorialisation. Visual Studies, 30(1), 37-53.Meese, J., Gibbs, M., Carter, M., Arnold, M., Nansen, B., ; Kohn, T. (2015). Selfies at Funerals: Mourning and Presencing on Social Media Platforms. International Journal of Communication, 9, 14.Nansen, B., Arnold, M., Gibbs, M., and Kohn, T. (2014) The Restless Dead in the Digital Cemetary, in Digital death: Mortality and Beyond in the Online Age. Eds. Christopher Moreman and David Lewis. Praeger.Gibbs, M., Carter, M. & Mori, J. (2013) Vile Rat: Spontaneous Shrines in EVE Online (2013) Foundations of Digital Games Conference (FDG’13), 15 May, Chania, Greece.Gibbs, M, Carter, M, Arnold, M and Nansen, B (2013) Serenity Now bombs a World of Warcraft funeral: Negotiating the Morality, Reality and Taste of Online Gaming Practices. Proceedings of Internet Research 14.0: The 14th Annual Conference of the Association of Internet Researchers (AoIR), 23–26 October 2013, Denver, USA.Gibbs M, Bellamy C,Arnold M, Nansen B and Kohn T. (2013) Digital registers and estate planning. Retirement and Estate Planning Bulletin. 16 (3): 63-68.Bellamy, C, Arnold, M, Gibbs, M, Kohn, T, Nansen, B (2013) Mediating the digital hereafter: life beyond the timeline. Prato Community informatics Research Network (CIRN) Conference Oct 28–30 2013, Monash Centre, Prato Italy.Graham, C., Gibbs, M. and Aceti, L. (eds) (2013) The Information Society Special Issue: Death, Afterlife, and Immortality of Bodies and Data 29(3): 133–202.Graham, C., Gibbs, M. and Aceti, L. (2013) Introduction to the Special Issue on the Death, Afterlife, and Immortality of Bodies and Data.  The Information Society: An International Journal.  29(3): 133–141.Mori, J, Gibbs, M, Arnold, M, and Nansen, B. (2012) ‘Design Considerations for After Death: Comparing the Affordances of Three Online Platforms’. Proceedings of the 24th Australian Computer-Human Interaction Conference, Swinburne University, November 26–30. ACM Press, New York, p. 395–404.Kohn, T., Gibbs, M., Arnold, M., and Nansen. B. (2012) ‘Facebook and the Other: Administering to and Caring for the Dead Online’, in Hage, G (ed), Responsibility, University of Melbourne Press, Parkville, Australia, pp 128–141.Gibbs, M., Mori, M., Arnold, M. & Kohn, T. (2012). Tombstones, Uncanny Monuments and Epic Quests: Memorials in World of Warcraft. Game Studies 12(1): http://gamestudies.org/1201/articles/gibbs_martinMori, J., Howard, S. and Gibbs, M. (2011). ‘Poets and Blacksmiths: Implications for Global Memorialization Using Digital Technology’. Interactions. 18(5): 48–54.Rod, J., Graham, C. and Gibbs, M. (2011) Suicide Effects: Designing for Death. C&T2011: Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Communities and Technologies. ACM Press, New York, NY, USA: 31–40.Public reportsBellamy, C, Arnold, M, Gibbs, M, Nansen, B, Kohn, T. (2013) Death and the Internet: Consumer issues for planning and managing digital legacies. Australian Communications Consumer Action Network (ACCAN), NSW. Available at http://www.craigbellamy.net/images/death.pdfContact detailsMartin GibbsEmail: martin.gibbs@unimelb.edu.au




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

