URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/about/csirac/music/acknowledgements








Acknowledgements









































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



About us



CSIRAC: Our first computer



The music of CSIRAC



Acknowledgements







Acknowledgements
The music of CSIRAC



Many people have helped with the recreation and publication of this work and have provided encouragement to me throughout this project. It has been a pleasure to be involved with some of the original pioneers of computing in Australia. I hope that I have made clear the roles played by the people who worked with CSIRAC. I would like to thank all of them and the interviewees for their generous time and assistance. The interviewees are; Reginald Ryan, Terry Holden, Kay Thorne, Peter Thorne, Ron Bowles, Eileen Hill, Douglas McCann and Dick McGee. I am particularly grateful to; Ron Bowles, Jurij Semkiw, and especially John Spencer, for their gracious patience with my naive questions, their generosity and their skills, without which this project could never have progressed beyond the imagination stage — many thanks.The University of Melbourne, Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering has been extremely helpful and supportive, providing access to people and facilities. Thanks are due especially to Peter Thorne and Leon Sterling for this.Thanks to Museum Victoria, especially Catherine Lovelock, Fiona Kinsey and David Demant who allowed me unfettered access to CSIRAC, now a prized museum object, to achieve the most faithful recreation possible of the music.I am very grateful to the many other people who have helped 'behind the scenes', providing their time, encouragement, expertise and sometimes equipment. These people are: John Crawford, Doug McCann, Judith Hughes, Warren Burt, Steven Pass and the Technical Services staff including John Horvath and Andrew Peel.Thanks to The Pearcey Foundation for assistance in the early stages of this project.Chris Burton very kindly provided unique information about early British computers through private correspondence and connection with the Computer Conservation Society.Thanks to Gus Gollings who was tireless and instrumental in the publication of the work, and to Sarah Kenderdine whose inspired ideas helped tremendously to bring this work to its published fruition.Special thanks to Paul Berg for many years of inspirational mentor-ship and for reviewing this project.This project was very generously assisted and funded by the Australian Commonwealth Government through the Australia Council, its arts funding and advisory body.— Paul Doornbusch.SourcesMuch of the anecdotal and oral material was gathered over long periods of casual and personal contact with the people involved. For example, there were several pieces of the puzzle that came out during the CSIRAC 50th birthday celebrations in November 1999 and there were regular meetings on a Tuesday with John Spencer, Jurij Semkiw, Ron Bowles, Peter Thorne, Doug McCann and others.Interview with Trevor Pearcey, recorded on 1st October 1996, interview conducted by Steven Pass, Doug McCann and Peter Thorne.Interview with Reginald Ryan, conducted by the author, 25th January 2000.Interview with Terry Holden, recorded 7th June 1997 by Steven Pass.Interview with Kay Thorne, conducted by the author, 21st February 2000.Interview with Peter Thorne, conducted by the author, 16th February 2000.Interview with Ron Bowles, conducted by the author, 25th February 2000.Interview with Eileen Hill, conducted by the author, 2nd March 2000.Interview with Douglas McCann, conducted by the author, 15th May 2000.Interview with Dick McGee, conducted by the author, 20th May 2000.Private correspondence with Chris P. Burton, Computer Conservation Society.Bird, J. 1999. “Percy Grainger” Sydney, Australia: Currency Press.Cage, J. 1967. “Silence” Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA: The MIT PressChadabe, J. 1997. “Electric Sound the Past and Promise of Electronic Music” New Jersey, USA: Prentice-Hall, Inc.CSIRAC Archive, The University of Melbourne Computer Science Department.Dean, J. 1997. “CSIRAC Australia’s First Computer” Killara, New South Wales, Australia: Australian Computer Museum Society.Hiller, L. A. and Isaacson, L. M. 1959. “Experimental Music" New York, USA: McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.Manning, P. 1993. “Electronic and Computer Music” Oxford, England: Oxford University Press.McCann, D. and Thorne, P. 2000. “The Last of the First: CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer” Melbourne, Victoria, Australia: Melbourne University Computer Science.Pierce, J. 1995. “Recollections by John Pierce” Part of “The Historical CD of Digital Sound Synthesis. Computer Music Currents 13” Mainz, Germany: Schott Wergo Music Media GmbH.Roads, C. 1980. “Interview with Max Matthews “Computer Music Journal 4(4). Reprinted in C. Roads, ed. 1989. “The Music Machine” Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA: The MIT PressRoads, C. 1996. “The Computer Music Tutorial” Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA: The MIT PressWilliams, M. R. 1997. “A History of Computing Technology" California, USA: IEEE Computer Society Press.LinksThere are many internet resources for computer music, electronic music, CSIRAC and historical computing, here are a few:International Computer Music AssociationCSIRAC: Our first computerCSIRAC Computer ArchivesSome Old ComputersA Chronology of Digital Computing Machines (to 1952)Emulator




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

