URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/colloquium/cisdc-2023#main-content








CIS Doctoral Colloquium: Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne









































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Colloquium



CISDC 2023







2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium






About
Program
Submission
Registration
FAQ
Our Team
Contact

 

The CIS Doctoral Colloquium is an annual one-day research conference for graduate researchers in the School of Computing and Information Systems.



This event is an opportunity for CIS graduate researchers to present their research in a supportive environment and receive feedback from a wide audience of peers and industry representatives.We are asking our presenters to focus on the real-world impacts and applications of their work. We want you to be able to reach a wider audience that is beyond your peers in your field of research.


















































More Photos


Previous colloquiums2022 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013




Sponsors - 2023 Colloquium
 


 







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 


Download:  CIS Doctoral Colloquium 2023 Program [PDF]Keynote Speakers






Johan Barthélemy, PhD

Johan Barthélemy, PhDDeveloper Relations Manager - Strategic Researcher Engagement (NVIDIA)After his PhD in Applied Mathematics at the University of Namur (Belgium), Dr. Johan Barthélemy joined the SMART Infrastructure Facility of the University of Wollongong (Australia) where he was a Lecturer and the head of the Digital Living Lab researching and developing AIoT solutions focusing on the development new applications of AI and embedded IVA for smart cities and environmental monitoring. Being passionate about applied AI and how to accelerate it with GPUs, he is now a Developer Relation Manager at NVIDIA, helping developers and scientists in their journey to build the next generation of AI-based solutions, with a particular focus on Conversational AI.Keynote Abstract: Accelerating Generative AIGenerative AI has the potential to revolutionize the way we approach a variety of tasks, from image and video synthesis to natural language processing. However, developing and deploying these models can be a complex and time-consuming process. In this talk we will present some of the tools and solutions that researchers can use to accelerate the design, training and inference of such models, as well as some of recent developments in the generative AI space.







Professor Justin Zobel

Professor Justin ZobelProfessor in the School of Computing and Information Systems and Pro Vice-Chancellor (The University of Melbourne)Professor Justin Zobel is a Redmond Barry Distinguished Professor in the School of Computing and Information Systems and Pro Vice-Chancellor (Graduate and International Research), in which role he oversees the Uni- versity’s graduate research training and international research partnerships. In the research community, Professor Zobel is best known for his role in the development of algorithms for efficient web search and for his contributions to robust research methodologies, and is the author of three highly regarded textbooks on graduate study and research practice.Keynote Abstract: The Arrival of the InternetThe internet underpins modern society: commerce, government, and our ordinary daily activities are completely reliant on it. But how did it emerge? What factors led to its existence? In this talk I give a brief history of some of the underlying ideas, of how the internet changed over time, and of how in 1989, when it was still a niche technology that few had heard of, the University of Melbourne came to connect Australia to the world. Entwined with this story of the technology is also that of the experience of using the internet from its first incarnation to the present day, and of the changes it brought and is continuing to bring. This history shows that in some ways its emergence was unlikely but also shows how quickly – and recently – we became dependent on this universal, ubiquitous entity that connects the planet.



Guest Speakers






Associate Professor Peter Cebon

Associate Professor Peter CebonAssociate Professor and Program Leader of the Innovation Practice Program (The University of Melbourne)Peter Cebon has almost 30 years experience as a researcher and consultant in the broad areas of innovation management, innovative strategy delivery, organisational design and organisational behaviour. He recently left full-time academic work, and now splits his time between consulting and research.Most of his current consulting work involves helping large organisations put in place or improve their management systems that help them to deliver risky (i.e. high innovation) strategies.







David Baker

David BakerAccount CTO / Technology Strategist (Microsoft)With over twenty-five years experience in the IT industry, David is focused on consulting and advising on technology strategies. The majority of this experience has been working with FSI customers helping them accelerate their businesses and delivering transformations. The last decade has been spent consulting with customers on how to transition into cloud operating models and extract value from them. A number of these engagements had the added complexity of businesses undergoing transitions of ownership.








Award WinnersHere is a list of all award winners, who each took home $500 in prizes! Jury's Choice
         Best Paper Award 
      Piumi Perera 
      
         Best Paper Presentation 
      Louis Cheung
         Best Poster 
      Archana Vadakattu 
      
         Best 3MR 
      
         Chen Wang People's Choice
         Best Poster 
      
         Ying Ma
      Best 3MRNattapat BoonprakongAccepted SubmissionsHere is a list of all accepted submissions for each track:Paper TrackHuman-Computer Interaction & Information SystemsPresenterTitle
         Piumi Perera 
      
         Digital Encounters with Nature 
      
         Matthew Sidji 
      
         . Exploring the Use of AI-Powered Tools in Cooperative Games: A Study of Human Participants Playing Codenames with a LLM assistant 
      Information SystemsPresenterTitle
         Davor Petreski 
      
         Data Cooperatives in HE: a philosophical exploration of justice 
      
         Catherine Thompson 
      
         Sunshine is the Best Sanitation: Truth-Telling in the Digital World 
      Computer SciencePresenterTitle
         Louis Cheung 
      
         Formally Verifiably Suffix Array Construction 
      
         Philip Cervenjak 
      
         Improving a Parameterized Streaming Algorithm for Maximum Coverage 
      
         Meng Yuan 
      
         Correspondences Between Topic Models and Text Embeddings for Information Retrieval 
      GeneralPresenterTitle
         Pengbo Yan 
      
         Proving Obliviousness of Probabilistic Algorithms with Formal Verification 
      
         Aidan Mcloughney 
      
         Unintended data driven consequences in machine learning 
      
         Pilar Selene Linares Arevalo 
      
         Verifying Memory Safety: Integrating Type Theory and Program Logics 
      Poster TrackPresenterTitle
         Abeer Alshehr 
      
         Explainable Goal Recognition 
      
         Emma Baillie 
      
         When to fight online misinformation 
      
         Ming Chen 
      
         iPod: Interference-aware Pod Placement for Latency-critical Services in Clouds 
      
         Tom Harris 
      
         Understanding racial and ethnic disparities in COVID-19 outcomes using an agent-based simulation 
      
         Tharindu B. Hewage 
      
         Green Cores: Software-defined Renewables for Carbon-aware Application Scheduling 
      
         Zhuoqun Huang 
      
         RS-Del: Edit Distance Robustness Certificates for Sequence Classifiers via Randomized Deletion 
      
         Ying Ma 
      
         Location Information on Social Media Platforms: Perceptions, Behaviours and Implications 
      
         Xiang Peng 
      
         Developing IT-Enabled Sustainable Innovations 
      
         Viktoria Schram 
      
         A Probabilistic Approach to Learning Curve Prediction incorporating Language Specific Information 
      
         Nellie Seale 
      
         There’s No Silver Bullet: Dungeons, Dragons, and Digital Dilemmas in Museums 
      
         Yige Song 
      
         Students’ Online Learning Profile – Explorative Data Analysis & PhD Plan 
      
         Archana Vadakattu 
      
         Effective Knowledge Transfer with Strategies 
      
         Rui Xing 
      
         Automatic Explanation Generation For Climate Science Claims 
      
         Jia Xu 
      
         Managing and Making Sense of Data to Drive Digital Transformation: A Case Study 
      
         Meng Yuan 
      
         Measurement of Clustering Effectiveness for Document Collections 
      Three Minute Research TrackPresenterTitle
         Nattapat Boonprakong 
      
         Bias-Aware Systems: Understanding, Detecting, and Mitigating Cognitive Biases in Online Information Consumption 
      
         Yige Song 
      
         A Comprehensive Profile of Students’ Learning Online 
      
         Xinyu Su 
      
         Traffic forecasting based on traffic propagation patterns 
      
         Chen Wang 
      
         Anomaly detection for human behaviour 
      
         Chenyang Wang 
      
         Warping Time without Alignment



Schedule   Time  Event  Location            8:30-9:00                 Arrival and Registration                 Superfloor (Mezzanine) - Entrance to Forum                  9:00-9:20                 Welcome                 Superfloor Forum 1                 9:20-10:00                 Keynote Address: Dr Johan Barthelemy, NVIDIA Generative AI                 Forum 1                 10:00-10:30                 Session 1 A: Human-Computer Interaction Forum 1 + 2                 Session 1B: Information Systems Forum 3                 Forum 1, Forum 3                  10:30-11:00        Morning Tea break           Superfloor Launchpad & Café area                  11:00-12:00                 Session 2 A: Computer Science Forum 1 + 2                 Session 2 B: General Forum 3                 Forum 1, Forum 3                  12:00-13:00        Poster Session and Lunch break           Launchpad and Café area                  13:00-13:30                 3-Minute Research Session                 Launchpad                  13:30-14:00                 Invited Talk: Prof Peter Cebon (University of Melbourne) From idea to product: helping researchers commercialise their idea                 Forum 1                 14:00-15:00                 Keynote Address: Prof Justin Zobel (University of Melbourne)                 Forum 1                 15:00-15:45                 Master Class: David Baker (Microsoft) Generative AI                 Forum 1                 15:45-16:10        Afternoon tea and networking           Launchpad and Café area                  16:10-17:00                 Careers post-PhD Panel Discussion                 Forum 1                 17:00-17:45                 Awards and Refreshments                 Forum 1






@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Want to share your research to the community?The CIS Doctoral Colloquium the perfect place for you!


  The CIS Doctoral Colloquium is an exciting opportunity for PhD students to share their research with the University community and the general public. It's also an opportunity to meet with industry representatives and network with your peers.


Download: CIS Doctoral Colloquium 2023 Call for Submissions [PDF]





  Submissions are now open for the 2023 Doctoral Colloquium


  See the list of important dates for the 2023 Doctoral Colloquium at the bottom of this page.



Submissions will close at midnight on Sunday, October 1st.

Submit Here

  If you have any questions about the colloquium or the submission process please email:CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au



How To ParticipateSubmission GuidelinesEligibilityPrizesImportant datesHow To ParticipateOnce the applications are opened, you will be asked to submit all the required information on EasyChair. As you move on with your application, you will receive further information.





Choose your preferred submission track
Choose between the four available tracks. Please refer to the submission requirements for information about requirements for each track :Paper: You will submit a short paper (1-2 pages) in the lead-up to the event and present your research on stage (7-10min) followed up by a Q&A on the day.Three Minute Presentation: You will have to present your research in three (3) minutes to a non-specialist audience, followed up by a Q&A on the day.Poster:  You will present and discuss your academic work during a poster session on the day.Poster + Demo:  If you require to present additional material, you can supplement your poster with a demonstration. Please contact us for any material enquiries (screen, table, etc.).


Submit your abstract
Please submit a 100 to 200-word abstract.All abstract submissions should contain a title, keywords and the list of your supervisors. Check the deadlines below on this page or from our communication emails.


Submit your documents
Once we receive your abstract, submit the additional information (depending on your track):Paper: submit a short paper of 1 to 2 pages and your slides. You can find templates on this page or on our EasyChair conference page.Three Minute Presentation: submit your slides. If you'd like some feedback and rehearse, you can present to us before the event!Poster: submit an A1 poster, we will print this for you before the event.Poster + Demo: submit your poster and the list of materials that you need for your demo.




Submission GuidelinesFind resources such as templates for the different tracks and examples from previous colloquiums on our dedicated resource page.


EligibilityApplicants must:Be a current graduate researcher at the University of Melbourne.Be enrolled in the School of Computing and Information Systems.Provide required documents on time.Domestic and international; part-time and full-time students are eligible. There is no capacity limits and no selection criteria. We welcome research at all levels of progress and completion.PrizesThere will be both top and honorary prizes awarded to selected papers, presentations, posters, and demos.Note: If you won a prize in a previous colloquium, you will only be eligible to win again this year if you present a new piece of research.



Important DatesPlease note these are the proposed dates for the 2023 colloquium, they may be subject to change if necessary.





				Sunday 1 October 2023


11:59pm
Paper, slides, poster, or demo requirements submission deadline


				Monday 9 October 2023


Notification of Acceptance


				Tuesday 10 October 2023


11:59pm
Registration deadline


				Tuesday 24 October 2023


8:30am - 6:00pm
Doctoral Colloquium









@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Want to attend the CIS Doctoral Colloquium?Register for the event and find information about the venue here.


     Get to know our graduate researchers from the school of Computing and Information Systems. The Colloquium is free to attend and will showcase a range of presentations and times for interaction.   






  Registrations are now open for the
  2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium!



Date & Time
Tuesday, 24 October, 20238:30am - 6pm


Venue Information
Melbourne ConnectThe Superfloor, Melbourne Connect700 Swanston Street, Carlton VIC 3053



 Register Now




Conference VenueThe 9th CIS Doctoral Colloquium (CIS-DC 2023) will be held at Melbourne's newest innovation precinct: Melbourne Connect, on Tuesday 24th of October 2023. The buildings accommodate more than 500 academic staff and post graduate students, researchers, businesses, and start-ups collaborating all together.






Melbourne Connect700 Swanston StCarlton VIC 3053(03) 9035 5553








@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Frequently Asked QuestionsI’m not sure where to submit my workCreate an account on EasyChair with your student UniMelb email. Go to the "Submission" tab on the home page and follow the steps to submit all the required documents.Where can I find resources to help me prepare for my submission?You can find additional resources (including previous posters and proceedings) on the submission guidelines page. If you have further questions, don't hesitate to reach out!  CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.auI’m only at the start of my PhD, what can I present about?We expect that submissions will come from people at all points in their PhD or Masters by Research. Intermediate results or a discussion on a small aspect of your research is fine (and welcome!). The 3MT section is also a perfect place to talk about the research area you are going to be looking at or a problem you hope to solve.





I’m a UniMelb Undergraduate or Masters student, can I submit my work?

Sorry, only Graduate Researchers (PhD and Masters by Research) are eligible to submit to the CIS-DC. Not a GR? You are most welcome to attend the conference on the day.



Does it matter what point I am at in my studies?

No, all graduate researchers (PhD and Masters by Research students) are welcome to participate. Even if you have just started, we want to hear what you are excited about at the start of your research journey!



Can I reuse a piece of work?

The purpose of the DC is to showcase an aspect of your work to the wider CIS GR and academic community. If you want to workshop something you intend to submit or refine a piece of work that you have already submitted, that’s perfectly fine. If there’s a demo you’d like to showcase to a wider audience, we’d love to see it!



I’m really busy

The DC is a GR student forum to showcase GR student work and to get experience presenting and sharing your research in a safe environment. It’s also an opportunity to meet industry guests and potential future job opportunities. There are several CIS academics and researchers in the School now who participated in earlier DCs, so look at where it can take you.If you’re on the fence, put an abstract in!



I need some materials to put together a demo

Please speak to the committee if there are costs involved with producing your demo! Some support is available. We can also work with you as to how best to set up a demo if you’re unsure as to what to do.



Are there prizes for best paper, best poster, etc?

How does $500 sound? We will once again have people’s choice prizes too!



I’m currently based offshore or interstate, am I able to participate?

We would love for you to participate. If you can't attend the conference in person, the best option would be to submit a pre-recorded presentation for the 3 minute research track.









@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 


Vincent Barbosa VazConference Chair





Vincent Barbosa Vaz

Vincent is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. His main research interests lie in machine learning and optimisation. His project area explores the interplay between these two fields and how they can be more tightly integrated. Vincent is affiliated to the new ARC Training Centre OPTIMA with the industry partner South East Water. The focus of his applied work is on adapting such a framework to the water sector to make more informed decisions.Outside of study, he can be found at art venues or consuming ice cream (on cold days too).Profile, Emailvbarbosavaz@student.unimelb.edu.au


Meng (Abby) YuanMarketing and Public Relations Coordinator





Meng (Abby) Yuan

Abigail Meng Yuan, usually known as Abby, is a PhD candidate at the University of Melbourne. She earned a Bachelor of Science degree and a Master of Computer Science degree in 2017 and 2019 at the University of Melbourne. Her research interest is in information retrieval with a focus on how information is carried and how knowledge is conveyed by various forms of collection representations, as well as the measurements of the collection organisation techniques in the context of information retrieval.Emailmyuan3@student.unimelb.edu.au


Songyan TengWebsite and Registration Coordinator





Songyan Teng

Songyan is a Graduate Researcher in the Human-Computer Interaction Group at the University of Melbourne’s School of Computing and Information Systems. His research focuses on understanding textual interactions on smartphones and how this information can be used to inform context. Outside of his studies, he loves producing music and consuming copious amounts of sweets.Emailsongyan.teng@student.unimelb.edu.au


Archana VadakattuLogistics Chair





Archana Vadakattu

Archana is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. Her research involves exploring a new approach for transfer learning in autonomous agents, inspired by human learning. Prior to starting her PhD, she worked in industry for 2 years, where she developed her interest in cognitive agent research. Archana is also currently part of CIS-GReS as an Activities Officer. In her spare time, she enjoys playing (and watching!) tennis.Emailavadakattu@student.unimelb.edu.au


Chen (Chloe) WangProgram and Publications Chair





Chen (Chloe) Wang

Chen is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. Her research centres on anomaly detection using deep learning methods. Her project explores the potential of detecting anomalies by predicting agents’ underlying intentions. Chen is also affiliated to the ARC Linkage Program with the industry partner Northrop Grumman Corporation. Outside of study, she can be found at tennis courts or shopping malls.Emailcww3@student.unimelb.edu.au


Wenjun ZhouFinance Chair





Wenjun Zhou

Wenjun's research is on process forecasting under A/Prof. Artem Polyvyanyy and Prof. James Bailey's supervision. She is mainly responsible for maintaining industry relationship and also contributes to the scheduling and planning of the DC events. Out of her research time, she likes writing songs and thinking about philosophical questions. (By the way, she can juggle! ;) )Emailwenjun.zhou@unimelb.edu.au


Laura JuliffResearch Project Officer





Laura Juliff

Laura is a research project officer in the School of Computing and Information Systems (CIS) at the University of Melbourne.Emaillaura.juliff@unimelb.edu.au


Noah ScottiAdministration Officer





Noah Scotti

Noah is an Administration Officer in the School of Computing and Information Systems (CIS) at the University of Melbourne.Emailnoah.scotti@unimelb.edu.au






Volunteers
         Siddharth Agarwal 
      
         Qifan Deng 
      
         Ruby Edwards 
      
         Le Fang 
      
         Markus Hiller 
      
         Melissa Hofsteter 
      
         Oshada Jayasinghe 
      
         Anandi Karunaratne 
      
         Chunhua Liu 
      
         Stella Peng 
      
         Larissa Salerno 
      
         Viktoria Schram 
      
         Samangi Wadinambi Arachchi 
      
         Zihan Yang 
      Judges
         Mario Andres Munoz Acosta 
      
         Nestor Cabello 
      
         Marc Cheong 
      
         Kris Ehinger 
      
         Lea Frermann 
      
         Adrian Pearce 
      
         Thuan Pham 
      
         Lida Rashidi 
      
         Maria Read 
      
         Melissa Rogerson 
      
         Ofir Turel 
      
         Jenny Waycott 
      
         Sarah Webber







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc




 

Sponsoring
Interested in sponsoring our next Colloquium? If you are interested in hearing more about how your organisation can be a part of our event, contact us by email at: CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au

Enquiries
Any further enquiries, contact the CIS DC team:

EmailEmail: CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au

Social media
We are on social media:

TwitterTwitter: @cis_dc


InstagramInstagram: @unimelb_cis_dc


FacebookFacebook: fb.me/melbcisdc







@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc









Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

