URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/ageing#main-content








Growing old and staying connected | Human-Computer Interaction | The University of Melbourne













































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Human-Computer Interaction



Projects



Growing old and staying connected







Growing old and staying connected






Touch screen technology for ameliorating older people’s experience of social isolation.Project overviewSocial isolation is experienced when people have limited contact with others. It affects many older people and is associated with a range of physical and mental health problems. It is, therefore, a significant health concern, particularly for an ageing population.This project investigates the use of novel technologies to prevent and to ameliorate social isolation experienced by older adults.Building on a pilot project funded by the Institute for a Broadband-Enabled Society (IBES), this project uses a uniquely designed photo and message sharing iPad application in a longitudinal field study with a group of older people who are, or are at risk of being, socially isolated.The project is funded by the ARC linkage scheme in partnership with Benetas and IBES.Research teamThis is a multidisciplinary project, involving researchers working in the fields of human-computer interaction, computer science, social work, and aged care policies and practice.The project team comprises:Frank Vetere, Lars Kulik, and Jenny Waycott from the Department of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne.Elizabeth Ozanne from the Department of Social Work, The University of Melbourne.Sonja Pedell from the Faculty of Design, Swinburne University of Technology.Alan Gruner, research and development manager at Benetas.Brendan Lillywhite, aged care consultant and director of Alliance Perpetual.Publications and presentationsWaycott, J., Vetere, F., Pedell, S., Morgans, A., Ozanne, E., Kulik, L. (2016). Not for Me: Older Adults Choosing Not to Participate in a Social Isolation Intervention. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2016). ACM Press. (pp. 745-757).Waycott, J., Morgans, A., Pedell, S., Ozanne, E., Vetere, F., Kulik, L., & Davis, H. (2015). Ethics in evaluating a sociotechnical intervention with socially isolated older adults. Qualitative Health Research, 25(11), 1518-1528. doi: 10.1177/1049732315570136Waycott, J., (2015). Connecting online can help prevent social isolation in older people. The Conversation, November 19th 2015, Connecting online can help prevent social isolation in older peopleWaycott, J., Davis, H., Vetere, F., Morgans, A., Gruner, A., Ozanne, E., & Kulik, L. (2014). Captioned photographs in psychosocial aged care: Relationship building and boundary work. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2014), ACM Press.Davis, H., Vetere, F., Waycott, J., Ozanne, E., Morgans, A., & Kulik, L. (2014). The empathy of a champion user. In: CHI 2014 Workshop on Enabling Empathy in Health and Care: Design Methods and Challenges.Waycott, J., Vetere, F., Pedell, S. (2013). Designing communication technologies for socially isolated older people: Fieldwork reflections. Paper accepted for inclusion in CHI 2013 Workshop on Designing for – and with – Vulnerable People. ACM Press.Waycott, J., Vetere, F., Pedell, S., Kulik, L, Ozanne, E., Gruner, A., & Downs, J. (2013). Older adults as digital content producers. Paper to appear in Proceedings of the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2013). ACM Press.Vetere, F. (2013). Older adults as digital content producers. Paper presented at M-Enabling Australasia: Conference of the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network (ACCAN) (Sydney, 14th-15th August, 2013).Ozanne, E. (2013). Growing older and staying connected. Paper presented at the International Federation of Ageing Conference (Istanbul, 4th October, 2013).Waycott, J., Pedell, S., Vetere, F., Ozanne, E., Kulik, L., Gruner, A., & Downs, J. (2012). Actively engaging older adults in the development and evaluation of tablet technology. In Proceedings of the Australian Computer-Human Interaction Conference (OzCHI 2012). ACM Press (pp. 643 - 652). Melbourne, Australia.Gruner, A., Kulik, L., Lillywhite, B., Ozanne, E., Pedell, S., Vetere, F. and Waycott, J. (2012) Mobile Communication Technologies for Ameliorating Older People’s Experience of Social Isolation, Presented at the Australasian Association of Gerontology Conference (Brisbane, 20th - 23rd November)Gruner, A., Kulik, L., Lillywhite, B., Ozanne, E., Pedell, S., Vetere, F. and Waycott, J. (2012) The Use of Technologies to Reduce Social Isolation in Older People, Presented at the Anglicare Australia Conference 2012 (Hobart, 16th - 19th September)Pedell, S., Vetere, F., Kulik, L., Ozanne, E., & Gruner, A. (2010). Social isolation of older people: the role of domestic technologies. In M. Brereton, S. Viller, & B. Kraal (Eds). OZCHI ‘10: Proceedings of the 22nd Conference of the Computer-Human Interaction Special Interest Group of Australia on Computer-Human Interaction (pp. 164-167). Brisbane, Australia.IBES report (2012). Mobile and broadband technologies for ameliorating social isolation in older people.Gruner, A. (2012). Using technology to stay connected. In LASA Voice, Issue 1 (2012 Winter Edition).Media reportsABC Radio National Counterpoint (23rd November, 2015), Old hands at new technology.ABC Health and Wellbeing (February, 2014), Can technology curb loneliness?Ageing Agenda (June, 2013), PerspectivesThe Voice (April, 2013), Ageing Well.Australian Ageing Agenda (January 2013), Staying connected.The Age (July, 2012), Appy days are here again for seniors who plug in to social mediaHerald Sun (7 July 2012), iPadding up for new eraeHeathSpace.org (June, 2012), Case study: App project gives isolated seniors human touch DPS Aged Care Guide (June, 2012), Break isolation, share a photoCroakey - the Crikey Health Blog (June, 2012), Breaking down the digital divide: Two case studiesThe Senior (May, 2012), Pen and paper once hi-tech: Now it’s iPadFifty-Plus News (December, 2011, p.2), Focus on preventing social isolationAustralian Ageing Agenda (November, 2011), More dollars, more researchContact detailsProf Frank VetereEmail: f.vetere@unimelb.edu.auDr Jenny WaycottEmail: jwaycott@unimelb.edu.au




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

