URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/teleconsultation#main-content








Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne













































        Skip to main content
      





School of Computing and Information Systems



Human-Computer Interaction



Projects



Teleconsultation







Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients






Project overviewTeleconsultation refers to the electronic communication between a clinician and patient for the purpose of diagnostic or therapeutic advice. Teleconsultations are particularly useful in situations where face-to-face consultation may be difficult or impossible. To date, tele-consultation typically occurs by video conferencing systems (such as Skype) via web cameras. While these systems are helpful for enabling communication, they do not adequately support the diagnosis and treatment of physical ailments, especially those that require touch and movement, as is common in physiotherapy.Physiotherapists assess, diagnose and treat people with movement problems. Their assessments and diagnoses rely on close observations and hands-on work with patients to detect subtle differences in body movement, such as a lack of balance in squats, abnormal distribution of weight on an affected foot, or limitations in range of movement for joints. Treatments are typically based on exercises and education to help patients improve their movements and resume their normal lifestyle. The aim of this project is to understand and improve the video consultation experience between a patient and their physiotherapist. We extend the experience through the use of wearable technology to support bodily interactions. We seek to better understand how physiotherapists assess and treat patients during video consultation and how interactive technologies can enhance the capabilities of physiotherapists and make video consultations more effective.The innovation is based on an analysis of existing tele-consultation practises by physiotherapists assessing patients for lower body movement. The video consultation is augmented with a wearable ‘smartsox’, called SoPhy, to assist in the diagnosis and treatment of lower limb rehabilitation. SoPhy (pictured below) consists of two parts: (a) a pair of socks with embedded sensors for patients to wear, and (b) a web interface that presents the information to physiotherapists in real-time. SoPhy captures and presents information related to weight distribution, foot orientation and range of movement. During a tele-consultation, when the patient wearing the SoPhy socks performs lower limb movements, the physiotherapist can see the bodily information in real-time on the SoPhy interface. SoPhy: (a) a pair of socks with embedded sensors for patients to wear, and (b) a web interface that presents the information to physiotherapists in real-time.In collaboration with the Royal Children’s Hospital, we are evaluating SoPhy to better understand how it can enhance a physiotherapist’s ability to assess patients' lower limb movements during tele-consultations. Physiotherapists are finding SoPhy to be a valuable tool for assessing lower limb impairments and treating patients with weight bearing issues.CollaborationThis project is a collaboration between the Royal Children’s Hospital via Mark Bradford in the Chronic Pain Management CPMS and the Microsoft Research Centre for Social Natural User Interfaces (SocialNUI) at the University of Melbourne.Project teamDeepti Aggarwal, PhD Candidate, Microsoft Research Centre for SocialNUI, The University of MelbourneFrank Vetere, Professor, The University of MelbourneBernd Ploderer, Honorary Fellow, University of Melbourne and Lecturer, Queensland University of TechnologyThuong Hoang, Lecturer, School of Information Technology, Deakin UniversitySteven Baker, Research Fellow, Microsoft Research Centre for SocialNUI, The University of MelbourneMark Bradford, Physical Therapist, Royal Children’s HospitalContact detailsDeepti AggarwalEmail: daggarwal@student.unimelb.edu.auProf Frank VetereEmail: f.vetere@unimelb.edu.auPublicationsAggarwal D., Hoang T., Zhang W., Ploderer B., Vetere F., Bradford M. (2017) SoPhy: Smart Socks for Video Consultations of Physiotherapy. In: Bernhaupt R., Dalvi G., Joshi A., K. Balkrishan D., O’Neill J., Winckler M. (eds) Human-Computer Interaction – INTERACT 2017. INTERACT 2017. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 10516. Springer, ChamAggarwal,D, Zhang,W, Hoang,T, Ploderer,B, Vetere, F & Mark Bradford, M. (2017) SoPhy: A Wearable Technology for Lower Limb Assessment in Video Consultations of Physiotherapy. In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Denver, USA. [DOI]Aggarwal, D., Ploderer, B., V., Vetere, F., Bradford, M., & Hoang, T. (2016). Doctor, can you see my squats? Understanding bodily communication in video consultations for physiotherapy. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS 2016). New York: ACM Press, pp.1197–1208 [PDF] [DOI]Aggarwal, D. (2016) Supporting Bodily Communication in Video Based Clinical Consultations. In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2016). New York: ACM Press, pp. 188–192 [PDF] [DOI]Aggarwal, D., Ploderer, B., & Vetere, F. (2015) Addressing research gaps in teleconsultation settings. In CHI 2015 Workshop on Everyday Telepresence: Emerging Practices and Future Research Directions. Seoul, Korea. [PDF]MediaThe SoPhy smart socks have received coverage in over 180 media outlets (including radio, TV news, newspapers and magazines) in Australia and overseas, with a combined coverage of over 86 million people. The story was covered overseas in the United Kingdom, United States, Malaysia, Israel, Italy, New Zealand, Iran, Canada and China. Some highlights of the coverage are listed below.BBC News, 16 May 2018Smart SoPhy socks send data to your physiotherapistBBC video story.London Science Museum, 20 June 2018How smart socks revolutionise physiotherapyPart of 'From the Lab video series'.Tenplay Scope TV, 17 June 2018Smart socksVideo from 17.30 min to 19.55min. BBC News, 16 May 2018Smart SoPhy socks send data to your physiotherapistVideo of a BBC News segment on smart socks. Pulse radio, 7 May 2018‘Smart socks’ offer hope for remote patients with chronic painAudio of interview: University of Melbourne PhD candidate Deepti Aggarwal speaks about new “smart sock” technology which could help physiotherapists treat regional and remote patients remotely. The Indian Weekly, 19 April 2018Smart SolutionSmart socks is featured on the cover of The Indian Weekly. Pursuit, 9 April 2018Clever socks connecting remote patients and physiosNew ‘smart socks’ are helping physiotherapists better diagnose and treat injuries, particularly in remote patients. SBS, 11 April 2018Indian-Australian invents ‘smart socks’ for chronic pain sufferersDeepti Aggarwal’s new ‘smart socks’ are essentially a piece of wearable technology that provides physiotherapists real-time information on a patient’s lower body movements. The Today Show, 10 April 2018The Today Show segmentVideo fo the program. New Atlas, 10 April 2018Smart socks designed to aid physio-by-SkypeArticle by Ben Coxworth. Cosmos, 10 April 2018Young inventor puts a sock in itArticle by Geetanjali Rangnekar. Ten Play, 9 April 2018Wearable technology improves treatment opportunities for rural and remote patientsVideo and article. Ten News, 9 April 2018Big StepVideo from news broadcast. XinhuaNet, 9 April 2018Remote physiotherapy possible in Australia with "smart socks" Starts at 60, 9 April 2018‘Smart socks’ to help physiotherapists treat pain TVNZ, 9 April 2018Australian student using 'smart socks' to allow remote treatment by a physiotherapistAudio and article.News.com.au, 9 April 2018Vic student creates physio 'smart socks'AAP article by Gemma Najem. News Mail, 9 April 2018Could these socks save your life? ABC News, 9 April 2018'Smart socks' offer hope for remote patients with chronic pain, researcher saysArticle by Zalika Rizmal. Katherine Times, 9 April 2018Smart socks help remote patientsArticle by Roxanne Fitzgerald. 7 News, April 2018Vic student creates physio 'smart socks'AAP article by Gemma Najem. Perth Now, 9 April 2018Vic student creates physio 'smart socks'AAP article by Gemma Najem.




Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students
Staff only: FEIT Intranet







School of Computing and Information Systems
About us
About the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Industry
Research collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Mentor our students
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
News
2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
Research
Artificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
Research
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer Interaction
Facilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
People
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
Projects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
Research
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human information interaction
Human-Robot Interaction
Seminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
Study
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff













====================================================================================================

